THB -BGYPT1AN GAZETTE. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20. 1*)5.
8
HE WAR.
!. i A!. AM) UENKRAL, ™ ROTtt visit.
KBKHM's ACCIDENT AVERTED.
T It II ttif Duke and lluchess of Connaught,
null t|„- I'miwstM aoil H.H- the Khedive,
....„ ,l ihu « air.. Horse Show with their
........ • n Saturday afternoon-
V,.>u-I.lay iiioriuiig, their Royal Highnesses
,r | divine service at All Saints' Church,
i I in the uttunun.ii they drove out to Ghezi
i, .|,	i >n their return across the Nile bridge,
what might have been a nasty accident was
narrowly averted. The horse of one of the
idiers of the escort wins frightened by the
„.,i.u made by the large u.utor belonging to
ti'nv re'u Palace, which was drawn up with «
ii i .i~ i ..I other vehicles to allow their R<>y»l
| |..i	j.ii'S the bridge, and plunged
it,.I	i. it, lider. A (Kdiccmau, named
i'.ijuitaniii, iii-lied ii|i and by great prompt!•
'inscecdcd in gciting lior-c and rider up
..g.ii just in front of the Royal carriage.
~Thi- morning the Duke of Connaught in-
*|i«v:...l the troops at Kasrel-Nil at 9.40
o'eloek in the barrack square.
On Wednesday next the Duke and Du-
chess will lunch at tho Citadel alter the
in l ection of tho troops stationed there.
' in Thursday their Royal Highnesses will
j.	r. need to Bedn.cliciu before lunch in the
steamboat "Mi*r" and will remain till the
evening at Sakkarah.
t lo or d • tho 27th inst. their Royal
Hud,ni -- -. • >■•■ will proluibly bo accompanied
by Sir Win. (jarstiu, G.C.M.G., will visit the
Cairo Barrage.
The date of their arrival in Alexandria
is si ill uncertain, but it is probable that
they will come down in the afternoon of the
^7*li and leave on March2 by H. M. S. "E-sex"
f .r Cyprus.
Owing to Court mourning for the late Grand
Duke Sergius, their Royal Highnesses will be
unable to attend any social functions.
MECCA PILGRIMAGE.
AGMcuCTHa bank.
MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS.
The annual general meeting of shareholder*
in the Agricultural Bank of Egypt takes place
to-day. The directors have to report that the
net profits of the bank for the financial year
1904 amount to £157.859.9.11. Deducting, for
the servioe of the bonds outstanding, the
provision for the reservo fund, the dividend on
£625,000 preference shares, and 5 % to the
National Bank of Egypt,a total of £86,684.11 1
is available for the distribution of the
dividend on Ordinary and Deferred shares.
The directors propose a dividend at tho rate
of6peroent. per annum for the year 1904
on the Ordinary shares, amennting to
£74,400. They also propose a dividend at
the rate of £6.3.0 for eaoh Deferred share,
amounting to £21,300. At the end of the
year 1904, tho overdue loans for the year
amounted to £21,220, and the over-due
interest to £7,209. Of these amounts
£713,730 and £4,530 have been oollected
respectively since the closing of the accounts
for 1904.
The constantly increasing applications for
loans make an extension of the powers of the
batik for providing capital neoossary, and ac-
cordingly negotiations have been enterod into
with the Government, the result of which will
be communicated to the shareholders in due
- . i from Mecca sta'es that the
in, ,1.1 image has arrive I at Mecca, the
ii u tin- pilgrims lasing perfect,
i* Board of Health at Constantinople bus
icd the pilgiimnge as free from epidemic.
FITZNER gl'ATUOR.
	:!«• |i,-rl..iniam-e ul one iu*trumet	The
A l>	.	A.-iin utpiirably the finest mu	ement
	1: ,'eeuie.l an uuttatini	of the
wit	1 m i " "i the .Ku,iau .harp, an	one
l-t	i, t,i I.,aid me .'term lined	ngrily
d.'l	ilig against (lie '(rings and the	gentle
•|u|	i answer- ul zephyr* wearied	.n t by
■1,".	im-qual o.nte-'t. The Allegro was a	
	e "I feathered songstei* tivittenng	gaily
	tiie ec-oatiuii of the storm. D	orkk*
l,-n	■ I, entitled Dumky, a > zeds word	which
'i fit UCYUPATIOI Waiter Henry Hicks, deceased.


	aiunlig.'t the p
	'• rogaid only tu
wl.K-ti -lie *ii	ail then lime m
■ II not l*e. In	'■’to tor any a**,
d Ui any per*	on of ivliu-e clan
Dated this I*th day ot Feb
rit/nerljuaiuorconcert took place
rial on Friday before a small but
audience. Tho charity perform-
er at i he Ziainia Theatre doubtless
nt to a certain extent for the
■ uiie who would otherwise have
I. Rut the coi.cert*guiug public
, i ie to lie sp suited witb tickets
u hen pressed to do so. Anyhow,
■|. nuances are better attended
the bust European artists. The
;a« a very beautiful and highly
i-e. and . peed with a Uuatu.r II.
i Russian c"iup,i-er, U.azuunow.
.) Allegro led oil with a fugue
d by a melody which was taken
instrument in turn and again
litt fugue un-tit. The Allegretto
-e for Its pizzicato passages and
..ids pertecliy played ami upper
i takei
SAVOY SMALL DANCE.
Last Saturday's small dance was the best
witnessed this season, and perhaps in any
previous eea«on. The restaurant, ballroom,
hall, etc., were all too small to contain the
large gathering. During dinner especially the
aspect was very striking. The Duke and
Duchess of Connaught and suite had diunerdn
■ he restaurant. The Royal party arrived
about 8.15 and seemed very interested in Hie
dance. The Duke sat in the hall after dinner
and chatted freely wi'b several of the Savoy
visitors. /
Among others we noticed in the restaurant
were Mr\ and Mrs. Livingston, with 8 guests,
includingliaron von Oppettheim, Count Kod-
zi-djrodzki, Mr\C. Palmer, Misses Anderson.
Mr. and Mr*. Ochs entertained Sir John and
Lady Rogers aqd Sir Gerald FitzGerald. Mr.
Suures had as giyuts Baron and Baronne do
Menasce. Mr. and Mrs. Nugent, Harari Pasha
and Mme Harari were entertained by Mr. and
Mrs. Heidelbach. Mr. and Mme Michel Tueni
had a party of / 9,1 Mrs. Rodger Lovell and
Mi'S Price a partyLof 6, the Misses Hurley a
party of 5, Major 11 Herbert a party of 6. Mr.
ami Mrs. Coats and party entertained Gen. Sir
Stanley Clarke and Capt Stanley Clarke.
There were over 150 extra dinners in the
restaurant and as many suppors after the
•lauco.
ABBAS IIELMY THEATRE.
UjEIAMDBI* Mn.VIClfotUTT
The MunicipSF Commission will meet on
Wednesday next, the 22nd inst, when the
following matters will be disouaaed :
1 Communications diverse!.
a) Demission de M. Alderson.
hj Lettni du 9 Flvriar de 8.E. le Miniatre de
I’lntlrieur au sujet du rlglement-sqr la rage.
2' Reglement pour la vente des terrains de
la Muuicijialite.
3 Elargissument du poot du Gabbari.
4" Demandes de crldit pour
a)	l'achat d’on rouleau compresaeur (DUl-
gation du 24 janvier 1905).
b)	l’asphaltage dee stations de voiture (DUl-
gatiou du 31 janvier 1905)=LRl83.
c)	Timpressiou du recueil des rlglements
(DUlgatiou du 24 janvier 1905)=LE.100.
il) allocation k M. Tebeulle pour la publics
tion de sa brochure sur la rage (Obligation du
24 janvier 1905)=LE. 40.
«) travaux de reparations a 1'Abattoir (DUl-
gation du 7 fevrier 1905)=LE. 60.
f) gratifications aux percepteurs (Dlllgattan
du 11 flvrier 1905)=L.E. 493.
<j) reconstruction du mur de IRdpital du
Gouvernement (Delegation du 11 flvrier 1905)
=L.K 1192.
5* Nomination d'une Commission pour l'exa-
men de la question du diplacement de la prise
d'eau de la Cie des Eaux.
6° Rlglement sur lea ohatrettes des mar-
chan ds ambulants.
7° Nomination d'un inglnieur.
8" Projet de M. 0. Joseph pour la construo-
tiou d’une je tie-promenade.
9° Reglement d'apphoatirm de la taxe sur
les carriltes.
10“ Rl-clamation* lleetorales.
11° Affaires judicisires.
12° Proposition de M. Alderson, tendant a
1 assistance des Conseillera aux rlunions de la
Dllegation.
MR. ALDERSON'S RESIGNATION.
I’BKBQNAL AMBnBfliMET
The ex-Empress Eugenie left Luxor on Thunr-
ilay afternoon on her way up the rivar to
Assouan.
During the stay of the Duke and Ducheas of
Oormaogbt at Luxor last week (bey paid a
visit to tM'Dake and Duchess of Devonshire,
who happened in be at Luxor'on their dahabieh.
H.RM. Prince Gustavos Adolphus, of Swe-
den and Norway, and suite, including Baron
Itaiamb, chamber dm., and Caft Swerre, aide-
decamp to H.X.H., bate arrived in Cairo,back
from their Nile journey, and are Keying at
Sbepheerd's Hotel.
H.H. the Malmiajah of Khapurtala, with a
large suite, is expected in Ctoroearly im Kerch
and will stay at the Ghcareh Palace, where
several apartments have been reserved tor him.
Lord and Lady Cromer are expected to
return to Cairo from their Nile trip on Wed-
nesday.
mso ha n.
On Saturday evening was successfully pro-
duced. this perhaps least popular of Meyer-
beer's works. Tho opera, however, contains
many opportunities for the artiste playing
tho title role, and these were fully taken
advantage of by Signora Isabella Svieher, who
was rewarded by enthusiastic applause and
nuiuoruus handsome baskets of flowers This
accomplished artiste also proved herself a
clever 'cellist and after the first act of the
ojiera charmed her hearers with a skilful
rendering of a delightful composition by Offen-
To the Editor of the ‘■Egvptias Gazette."
Sir,—We, the undersigned, the President
and members of the Committee of the Tenants'
Commission ot Alexandria, having read the
letter of Mr. Geo. B. Alderson in the "Egyptian
Gazette” of Saturday, 18th inst, do hereby
declare that that gentleman's letter is based on
totally erroneous suppositions. In the first
place, the statutes of the Societk Anonima
delleCase Ecobomiche have not been submitted
to the Egyptian Government, as we fully
explained to Mr. Alderson in his private office
on the 14th last. The allegations of Mr.
Alderson on this point are therefore totally in-
correct The only reason for Mr. Alderson’s
resignation was that he wished to control the
entire scheme without any assistance from
other capitalists. He wanted 10% interest on
the capital, as he had stated to the Municipal
Commission, but we refused to entertain this
proposal. We n/ay add that we approached the
local capitalists with the consent of Mr.
Alderson.—We are, etc.,
L. Ronci, president; 8. J. Agios, G.
Calebotta, A. Maravelli, F. Quintavalli, G.
Menasso, A. Spada, G. M. Perrakis, J. Angelo,
members of the committee.
Alexandria, February 18.
NILE TOURISTS.
A dinner was given at the Savoy Hotel
yesterday evening by Comte Thaddl Bolesta
Koziebrodski, Diplomatic Agent for Austria-
Hungary, in honor of Bontroe Par ha GbalL
The guests included Ahmed MazlocmiPbsha,
Minister of Finance, Abaci Pasha, Minister of
War, M. and Mme Ms sirens, Marquis and
Marohiouea* Salvago-Raggi, Dr. and Mme.
Kuoker-Jenuch, Geo., Mrs. and Miss Slade, De
Martino Pasha and Mme De Martino, Comtesse
de FaggerdBabeobausen and daughter, Mrs.
Campbell, Mies Hurley, Mini Gertrude Hurley,
Mr. Vincent Corbet, Sir William Gars tin,
Izzet Pasha, Gen. ThuroeyMen Pasha, Negbib
Bey Gbali, and Comte Stadnicfci.
Fabric!ae Pasha is giving* big dinner party
at the Savoy on Wednesday, and Hon. J. W.
Riddle is giving one on Thursday.
Earl Howe will remain in Egypt with Lady
Howe until late next month, when they return
to Gopsall for the Easter holidays.
Mrs. Carton de Wiart has been very unwell,
aud has kept her bed for the last week. Her
engagements have been cancelled until March 1.
The restaurant of the Grand Continental
Hotel presented an usual aspect on Friday
night, when, after the performance of Tk» Pi-
rat* of Pektanee, the entire troupe assembled
in costume at the sapper given in honour of
the oaonsion by the oommitteeof management.
The arrangements, in ths hands of Mr. Nun-
govieh, left nothing to be desired. A sump-
tuous repeat was followed by speeches and the
driuking of numerous toasts, and the oompany
separated at a late boar.
was rewarded by enthusiastic applause and The following passengers left Shellal
nuiuorous handsome baskets of flowers This yesterday by the P. S. "Prince Abbas” :
accomplished artiste also proved herself a Mrs. McKinley, Miss Thomburo, Miss U.
clever 'cellist and after the first setoff the Meyer, Mr. and Mrs. F. R. Beaus, Miss Kemp-
ojiera charmed her hearers with a skilful .son, Mr. and Mrs. Wellington Wells, Mx. and
rendering of a delightful composition by Offen- Mrs. J. H. Baxter, Prof. Dr. K and. Mrs.
bach, played with exquisite expression and Frahnkel, Mr. R. M. King, Mr. E. G. Baxter,
mi. iiutraiislateable even to Austrians present,
ippeared to resemble a Scotch or an Irish la-
ment in it* plaintive waning uie:ody,so much so
tli ,t «e l, --l .'lire a Duuiky is the expression
m i i hi y uf forlorn love or a dc'olaie hearth.
| • i I a hearty encore which brought
i.,	:	| i rmers, who played an Amlante
luovcn:*1:.! tr in one of Uriel's quartets, which
w.i, |n„yed iii u masterly way ami brought ton
tini'li with an astonishing chord passage of
lianiiuiiics. Cherubini's Scherzo, which followed,
was a sjiortive lively number, aud then cauie
the "piece de resistance," Beethoven's tjuartet
in E Minor (op. 59 No 2). llovv can we dare
de-cribu the hreailth aud beauty of this music
al giaut'scomposltiousl We canuotdobetierthsn
refer uiusiu lovers to Sir George’s Grove's Essay
on Beethoven s instrumental music. Although
'he hour was bile, healing midnight, the au
diem e wu'still enthusiastic, aud auutlier eneor
n t- granted, when a second movement fr-.ni
'in.-g s yuartei was given, a picturesque mar
ml ii .iiiher in which the da-h of anus and the
-orrowfnl tones of mothers and wives wailine
i r their lost ones tollowed one another in quick
crushing chords and softened subdued passage.-
•f iiiijias'inncd grief. Thu finish and ensemble
•f the Fi'/"er tjuatuor was arimiruhle, so we
have confined ourselves to a mere description
of the beautiful musi: iliey played. It was
altogether a feast for music-lovers.
STEAMER MOVEMENTS.
technique, and accompanied by the orchestra.
Signora Svieher was ably supported by Signor
Borrionc and Montanari in the respective rifles
ol H-iel and Uorentino. The invisibje choruses
were exceedingly well rendered, and proved
quite a feature of the performance. The opera
was well staged and the orchestra, as usual,
excellent
To-night Massenet's "Manon” will be staged,
with Signora Bellincioni in.the title rifle, and
from the crowded audiences who attend this
lady's performances it is hardly necessary to
state that those who wish to be present should
book their seats as early as possible.
BULLETIN D®’ LA BOUR8E
IS\YUY HOTEL, LUXOR.
j Bc-'i and most cotnlortahle, unique (or it*
|" -i'" t' >’>• Nin l.ni k. I iidei Unman Manugt
i tiujii- hi- di luti-cl.hi^e*. I'alinninvU by oflirei
j of Army of'Occupation. Conoerts twice daily
The Messogeries Mari times S. S. '“Congo," '
from Marseilles, passed the Straits of Massiqf
on Saturday and is due here to-morrow.
Anglo-American Kile Steamer
A. HOTKI. I "Ml'A.VV.
mvf« ih»»sf ihi uf mnursnerti auuidria * c»r-
Thraa Sailings a-Waah
Aren't al AUxandria :
ALEXANDRIA BONDED WAREHOUSE CO. LD.
I1.1Q.B04
(A njnurtThui d midi et dt^nie)
I/O inarchl dea valours eat fermo ct animl.
L'Egyptian Investment attoint 1 15/16, la
DaVra 25 1/8, les Markets 24 6, la Blhlra
51 1/2 et la Cairo Helouan 29.
En revanche on rlac'ionne en Agricole k
II 3.4, en Banqtie d'Athfcues k 122 1/2, en
Dclti Laml k 3 3,4, en Salt & Soda k 40/6, Cn
Brasserie de l'lbrahitmoh k 216 et en Brasserie
•les Pyramides k 138.
Lo nombre des transactions a Itl considl-
rahle sur ton to la ligne.
PASSENGER S’ LIST8.
DEPARTURES.
Le paquebot "Salazie" des Messageries Ma-
ritimes parti le 17 Flvrier pour Marseille, avait
k bord :
M. Vermorel, M. E. B. Flemming, M. Mange,
sDr. Johnston, M. Habib Basta, M. et Mme
Valcke, M. Choisy, colonel Bataille, sa femme
et ses enfant*, M. Leroy, Mr. Th. Dornhrisoh,
Mr. Chesterlon, M. Adler, M. et Mme Julien
Robert, Mr. Seeman, M. A. Hu4d, M. G.
Wamwright, M. Delaporte, Mile Suzanne Dkr-
vois, M. E. Crepy, M. A. Levy, Mile d'0ran|e.
M. W. Husted, M. et Mme de Jong, M.
Aiml Ben Amar, Mme Levy, son fils et 11
enfant, M. Di Barbazza, M. Victor Blme, 11.
le Dr. Kanony, Sceur Louise, M. Brignon, M.
Rouyer, Mme K. Levy, Mme Dubernade, M
Shand, et 6 pan&gen de 8me et 4me olmes.
Lady Bell, Mrs Mounaey Heygate, Miss
Mounsey, Miss Bell, Mr. and Mrs. R. T.
Presum, Mr. A. C. Ixiw, Miss H. Cole, Mrs.
Stickney, Mr. R. B. Foster, Mis* Adelaide
Spofiord, Mr. Nath. Bishop Farrar, Mrs. and
Lt. von Meyer zu Kmmow, Mr. and Mrs. S.
H. Valentine and patty.
The tallowing passengers left Cairo, on Fri-
day by the F.S. "'Nefertari" for the Nile trip:
Mr. J. Tonga, Mr. J. Butterworth, Mr. W.
Brterley, Mt. W. Conliffe, Mr. 1. Taylor, Mr.
Mitchell, Mr. J. Smith, Mr. J. J. Wagstaffe,
Mr. aud Mrs. Hargreaves, Dr. J. S. Boyd, Dr.
E. B. Purton, Mr. F. E. Thew, Mr. F. Sold,
Mr. J. H. Fletcher, Mr. H. Bottomley, Mr.
and Mrs. Porritt, Miss M. Aitken, Miss M.
Robins, Mr. H. and Miss Kenold, Mr*. E. and
Mr. O. L. Schrceder, Mr. Lansberger, Mr. and
Mrs. Vollner, Mrs. and Mis* Clayton, Sir
B. and Lady Frauklin, Mrs. von Heytweiller,
Baroness von Frank, Mr. and Mrs. von
Teydemann, Mr. aud Mrs. V. FeUekeostoin,
Mr. J. Brook Richardson.
British Chamber of Commerce.—We would
call the attention of persona interested ir
Egyptian trade to the work of the British
Chamber of Commerce of Egypt, whose office
in Alexandria gives information as to standings,
trade, &c., to its members, and whose monthly
publication reviews our commerce. The annual
subscription is £1 and all British traders should
become members. Our Ix>ndon office, 36, New
Broad-street B.C., act* as London agency to the
Chamber.
CAIRO MAUD HARMAN.
TURKISH BATHS.
PLAN BATHS,
xk	ELECTRIC U8KT BATHS
■ A'MQl * »LUTnO.UTDU»raTail BATH*.
. -aw SMOT. Dr. TntNMr favurl* * X»r. M. M
CAELTON HOTEL.
itiilkaiay, Ramleh.
wettHtt	mnur^+m,
The death is announoefl, as having taken
place at Newport, Mon., of Mrs. A. E. Gar-
wood, wife of a former engineer-in-chief of
the Looomotive, Carriage, and Wagon Depart-
ment of the Egyptian State Railways.
Mrs. Peacock and family beg to express their
heartfelt thanks to the many friends who have
showu sympathy and kindaees in their sad
bereavement.
The latest arrivals at Sbephearifs "Hotel
include : Baron and Beraneas de Bankee,
Comte de Lae Case*, Conte de Nettanoourt,
Baron von Mayer, Mme de Castollo, Comte
and Comtesse de Gironde, Chev. P.' Piooardo,
Mr. and Mrs. Summerfieid, Mr. Newmann
firb and party, Obenegtetungarat Prof. Dr.
aud Mrs. Meyer, Mr. and Mrs. Haselden, Mrs.
Manning,Mr.and Mrs. Milton, Miss Velasquez,
Mr. C. d'Estange, etc.
Societe Anoiipe des Eanx da Cure
AVIS
Les portours d'Obligatious 4% Emission d'A-
vril 1902 sont infbrmls qne le Vendredi 3 Mars
1905 k 4 heures de l'aprke-midi il seta proddl
en slanoe publique au sikge de la Sooiltl,
avenue de Boulaq, au tinge de 'vingt-six obli-
gations, A amortir en 1905.
LeDiroctmr,
A.P. Prik.vd.
Lo Cairo, le 18 Plvriar 1905	254S4-8M

“AU DE ROUGE.”
BENEIAL DRAPERY ESTAIUSHNERT.
(C'entrol Tramway Htatfoc),
CAIRO.
P. PLUNKETT;
PROPRIKTOR.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF BRITISH AND IRISH
TEXTILE MANUFACTURES.
Ladles’ Fancy Bilk Blfafteir and
Skirts, and Fancy ‘ ttdteiiat for
Evening Wear. Also Fans. Fancy
Pins, Artificial Flowers,Fear!Neok-
lets, and Chiffbns.
Ladies’ and Gents’ Pocket Hand-
kerchiefs in Beal Irish Linen.
BECK & COT
I BEER
mss HO HOIW UftMfHKlS-fOl' UBiLITT.
H JJ.—Iahrior Brands ncwtotagbflwW to Km.
^ofwMbielMto.
Beware ef evffly ebperal inanMw Meh|
EDEN PALACE HOTEL,
CltBO.
0)M Ul'th. 7MUT pond.
iitrimi illk.- im.-iuum iumii